# electron-webpack-debug

## What?
This is _almost_ the most basic Electron Forge / Webpack application that can be created. To create the nearly exact source in this repo for yourself, all you need to do is run the following command:

```
npx create-electron-app@latest wp-test4 --template=webpack
```

The only things this project adds to the "out-of-the-box" source code generated by the above is:

* A `.vscode\launch.json` file
* A single configuration option, `devtool: 'source-map',`, to the `webpack.renderer.config.js` file
* A `.gitignore` file (that isn't really meaningful)

Together, the first two additions listed above allow debugging the main and renderer processes.

## Why?
I recently started programming Electron apps. I am, at best, an amateur developer. I was seeking to create an Electron / Webpack app and, naturally, looking for a way to debug the application along the way. My IDE of choice is VS Code.

Appropriately, the `npx` command above does not create IDE-specific configuration files. So, I went hunting on the Internet to try and find the right configuration. I spent far too much time Googling, Binging, ChatGPTing, Perplexitying, Clauding, posting to the [electron.js help-forum](https://discord.com/channels/745037351163527189/1022347222421086248), and reading documents on [code.visualstudio.com](https://code.visualstudio.com/) and [www.electronforge.io](https://www.electronforge.io/) trying to figure out how to configure the `launch.json` and `webpack.renderer.config.js` files. I could not find anything on the Internet that worked for me. After _many_ hours of trial and error, I landed on the configuration that is in the project.

This project will be a valuable resource for me if I ever write another Electron / Webpack application. I hope, if you find this, it is a valuable resource for you as well.

## What else?
There is a well understood problem when debugging Electron applications: the renderer process loads before the debugger attaches to the files. The result is a debug session where the window is rendered, but no breakpoints (if any are set) are hit. In order to hit the breakpoints, you have to refresh the page. I did a little Googling, Binging, ChatGPTing, Perplexitying, and Clauding and could not find a way to fix this problem. I fully suspect a solution exists and it is probably not hard to implement. Perhaps one day I'll add that solution to this project. In the meantime, however, I'm going to live with the annoyance and, if you decide to clone this project as is, you will too. :)